local resource docs (#341)
windmilleng/tilt.build: docs/local_resource.md

---
title: Run Local and/or Occasional Workflows with Local Resource
layout: docs
---
A Local Resource works like any other resource in your sidebar (which are most

> often some combination of Docker Build instructions and K8s Yaml)--encompasses

Reviewer: nit: "K8s Yaml" capitalization feels weird, esp. given "k8s yaml" a few lines down. I think it should be "YAML" or "yaml". I don't have an opinion and don't know if we have a docs standard on k8s vs K8s (it looks like we currently have 5 of the former and 2 of the latter), but it'd be good to be consistent within this doc

Author: you are 100% correct ty

> often some combination of Docker Build instructions and K8s Yaml)--encompasses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
often some combination of Docker Build instructions and K8s Yaml)--it encompasses
```

> a unit of work, and execute in response to file changes, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a unit of work, and executes automatically in response to file changes, or
```

[manually](https://docs.tilt.dev/manual_update_control.html). For your resource

> `MyGreatService`, when one of its file dependencies changes, the work it executes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MyGreatService`, when one of its file dependencies changes, its work
```

that sounded pretty roundabout to me

is to build a Docker image and deploy some k8s yaml; for a Local Resource, it's
to execute an arbitrary command on your local filesystem.

# Run commands locally on file change

> Tilt is designed to make it easy to build images, and to sync files/run commands

Reviewer: This sentence kind of makes it sound like Local Resource is some fringe feature that tilt is not designed to make easy.

Maybe something like "Most uses of Tilt focus on easily and quickly seeing your code running in the cloud."?

in the cloud. For some kinds of development, however, you might want to harness

> Tilt's responsiveness to file changes, but run commands locally instead. These

Reviewer: "These cases often fall into the general categories of" makes this list sound more exhaustive than I think is intended. Maybe "Some common use cases we've seen this address"?

cases often fall into the general categories of:
- *file changes or other artifacts that you want on your local machine (e.g. for
git commit)*. For instance: when `package.json` changes, run `yarn install`
(because you want the resulting `yarn.lock` file to exist on your local computer
so that you can commit it to git)

```python
local_resource('yarn', cmd='yarn install', deps=['package.json'])
```
- *tooling that you have locally but don't want to put on your container images*.
For instance: rather than pulling/pushing big container images with the Go compiler,
you'd rather compile your binary locally, and then use Live Update to quickly sync

> the new binary up to a running container in your cluster

Reviewer: it's weird to have sample code for the previous one but not this one

Author: urghhh. but yeah you're right

See also: [`local_resource` API spec](api.html#api.local_resource).

(Of course, the command you run doesn't have to be on that (only) affects your
local filesystem. It might, for instance, be a script that is _invoked locally_
but runs against your k8s cluster.)

## Local Resource + Live Update = <3

Local Resource and Live Update are two great tastes that taste great together.
A really useful pattern is to have a Local Resource which creates an artifact
that is then picked up by a Live Update and synced to a running container.
For example, here's how you might use this combination to generate protobufs:
```python
# whenever `helloworld.proto` changes, generate Python protobufs
local_resource('proto',
    cmd='protoc --proto_path=src --python_out=build/gen',
    deps=['helloworld.proto']
)

# define your hello-world resource: k8s yaml + a Docker build
k8s_yaml('hello-world.yaml')
docker_build('hello-world', '.',
    ignore='helloworld.proto',  # don't step on Local Resource's toes
    live_update=[ sync('.', '/app') ]
)
```

Note that the `docker_build` call specifies `ignore='helloworld.proto'`. This is

> because we DON'T want an edit to that proto file to kick off a Docker build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because we DON'T want an edit to that proto file to directly kick off a hello-world build.
```

1. we do want it to kick off a build, transitively
2. the "docker build" vs "live update" bit is a bit ambiguous (is a live update a "docker build"? if we say yes, then we definitely want the "directly" if we say no, then the `ignore` is irrelevant anyway because changing the proto would only ever kick off a live update, not a docker build - also saying no is weird when it is kicking off the live update of a docker build. this is probably just more unexplored ambiguous terminology territory)

Author: better?

To see this pattern in action, check out [this example repo](https://github.com/windmilleng/local_resource_example).

# Run occasional workflows (locally or against your cluster)

There's another class of workflow that Local Resource can help with; commands that
are a part of your development flow, but that you run only occasionally. This might
be a task like "ensure GKE user 'foo' exists" or "refresh my credentials" or even
"blow away my database".

You can trigger a Local Resource at will with the "force update" button:

!["force update" button](assets/img/force-update-button.png)

By default, a Local Resource will run on startup. To disable this behavior, put the
resource in `TRIGGER_MODE_MANUAL` and specify `auto_init=False`:
```python
local_resource('reset-db', cmd='reset_db.sh',
    trigger_mode=TRIGGER_MODE_MANUAL, auto_init=False
)
```

(`auto_init=False` is currently only compatible with `TRIGGER_MODE_MANUAL`. If
you'd like a Local Resource that runs automatically in response to file changes
but does NOT run on `tilt up`, [let us know](https://tilt.dev/contact).)

Note that you can mix and match manual and automatic runs as you like. For instance,

> you might have a `seed-db` Local Resource. Usually, you run it manually whenever

Reviewer: this seems like a weird solution to this use case, since seed_db.sh would run on startup

---
title: Run Local and/or Occasional Workflows with Local Resource
layout: docs
---

> Each entry in your Tilt sidebar is a **resource**---a unit of work managed by Tilt. (Until

Reviewer: "Until this point" / "have been" make sense in a blog with a publish date, but less sense in a doc

Author: fair nough
